Refresh - Guide to Developing Java Plugins (#385)
apache/maven-site: content/markdown/guides/plugin/guide-java-plugin-development.md

specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
-->

# Introduction

This guide is intended to assist users in developing Java plugins for Maven.

> - [Important Notice: Plugin Naming Convention and Apache Maven Trademark](#important-notice-plugin-naming-convention-and-apache-maven-trade)

Reviewer: Let us use the [TOC macro](https://maven.apache.org/doxia/macros/index.html#TOC_Macro) instead of manualy maintaining the TOC

Author: I tested 
```
<!-- MACRO{toc|fromDepth=2} -->
```

but anchors generated by toc macro looks like: `#Your_First_Mojo`
and anchors generated by skin looks like: `#your-first-plugin`

Author: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/DOXIA-696

Reviewer 2: Please add a comment that this manual TOC needs to be removed sooner or later.

            </goals>
          </execution>
        </executions>
      </plugin>
    </pluginManagement>
  </build>
</project>
```

### Building a Plugin

There are few plugins goals bound to the standard build lifecycle defined with the `maven-plugin` packaging:

|                   |                                                                                           |
|-------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `compile`         | Compiles the Java code for the plugin                                                     |
| `process-classes` | Extracts data to build the [plugin descriptor](/ref/current/maven-plugin-api/plugin.html) |
| `test`            | Runs the plugin's unit tests                                                              |
| `package`         | Builds the plugin jar                                                                     |
| `install`         | Installs the plugin jar in the local repository                                           |
| `deploy`          | Deploys the plugin jar to the remote repository                                           |

> For more details, you can look at [ detailed bindings for `maven-plugin` packaging](/ref/current/maven-core/default-bindings.html#Plugin_bindings_for_maven-plugin_packaging).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more details, you can look at [detailed bindings for `maven-plugin` packaging](/ref/current/maven-core/default-bindings.html#Plugin_bindings_for_maven-plugin_packaging).
```

**Tips**: `version` is not required to run a standalone goal.

### Shortening the Command Line

There are several ways to reduce the amount of required typing:

- If you need to run the latest version of a plugin installed in your local repository, you can omit its version number. 
  So just use "`mvn sample.plugin:hello-maven-plugin:sayhi`" to run your plugin.
- You can assign a shortened prefix to your plugin, such as `mvn hello:sayhi`. 
  This is done automatically if you follow the convention of using `${prefix}-maven-plugin` 
  (or `maven-${prefix}-plugin` if the plugin is part of the Apache Maven project).
  You may also assign one through additional configuration - for more information see [ Introduction to Plugin Prefix Mapping](../introduction/introduction-to-plugin-prefix-mapping.html).
- Finally, you can also add your plugin's groupId to the list of groupIds searched by default.
  To do this, you need to add the following to your `${user.home}/.m2/settings.xml` file:

```
<pluginGroups>
  <pluginGroup>sample.plugin</pluginGroup>
</pluginGroups>
```

> At this point, you can run the mojo with "`mvn hello:sayhi`".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point, you can run the mojo with `mvn hello:sayhi`.
```

</plugin>
```

In the configuration section, the element name ("`greeting`") is the parameter name and the contents of the element ("`Welcome`") is the value to be assigned to the parameter.

**Note**: More details can be found in the [Guide to Configuring Plugins](../mini/guide-configuring-plugins.html).

## Using Setters

You are not restricted to using private field mapping which is good if you are trying to make you Mojos reusable outside the context of Maven.

Using the example above we could define public setters methods that the configuration mapping mechanism can use.

You can also add `@Parameter` annotation on setter method (from version 3.7.0 of `plugin-tools`)

So our Mojo would look like the following:

```

public class MyQueryMojo extends AbstractMojo {

>     // we need provide name for not matching field and setter name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // provide name for non matching field and setter name
```
